[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
You know, there is one
subject that captures
the imagination of everybody.
And that is cryptids, creatures.
And we've got an expert, the
world-renowned Loren Coleman.
He's a cryptozoologist.
And he studies these
strange creatures.
Loren, welcome to the program.
>>LOREN COLEMAN: George, it's
great being here with you.
>>NOORY: I've got
to tell you, when
you were on "Coast to Coast"
with me on the radio show,
and as often as you've been
on, I get so much response
after you're on
from people who just
love these stories of
Bigfoot, and Mothman, and all
these other creatures.
>>COLEMAN: I do too-- a lot of
emails, a lot of communication.
They listen, and they want more.
>>NOORY: How did you
get involved in this?
Was there one case a long
time ago that just got
you interested in this?
>>COLEMAN: It actually
happened through a movie.
In 1960, I saw a movie called
"Half Human," a Japanese film.
I went to school the
next day and said,
what is this about
yetis in the Himalayas?
>>NOORY: [LAUGHS]
>>COLEMAN: And three teachers
said three different things.
They don't exist, get back to
your studies, leave me alone.
So--
>>NOORY: They don't
want to hear it.
>>COLEMAN: No, they didn't
want to hear about it.
But I did.
I started reading and
started investigating cases,
doing all kinds of field work.
>>NOORY: I'm much like you.
I was 10 years old when
that movie came out.
But I was obsessed with
"The Abominable Snowman."
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: And I think that
creature was whitish, right?
He had a lot of white hair.
>>COLEMAN: Well, that's
one of the myths.
The actual native peoples
always described them as black
to reddish brown.
But because of one
movie, most Americans
think that the yetis are white.
That movie is "Rudolph
the Red-Nosed Reindeer,"
because abominables
were always white.
>>NOORY: Now, you're
into cryptozoology--
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: --which means you
must be an expert on Bitcoins
and things-- no, I'm kidding.
>>COLEMAN: People confuse that.
>>NOORY: Are people
confusing that nowadays?
>>COLEMAN: Oh, yes, yes.
It's really routine.
I go online, go on social media.
Just because I'm
Crypto Loren doesn't
mean that I'm into crypto
bits and crypto coins.
>>NOORY: Exactly what
is cryptozoology?
>>COLEMAN: Cryptozoology
is the study
of hidden or unknown animals.
We look for the evidence to
actually verify and confirm
new species, like the giant
panda, the mountain gorilla,
the giant squid.
Those used to be cryptids.
They used to be
unknown creatures.
And then they were
discovered, and they
become part of zoology.
So the whole goal
of cryptozoology
is to be out there, to
talk to native people,
to look for physical
evidence, and to really do
a better job of really
describing what's in nature.
>>NOORY: And they're out there.
They're out there.
What's so-- this
planet is so immense.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: We would
think, you know,
we're naive to think that we
know every creature that's
out here.
There must be so many that
we haven't even discovered.
It's endless.
>>COLEMAN: Absolutely.
And there's new
discoveries every day.
They found a new
songbird in Central Park.
They found a new turtle
down in Mississippi.
And that's the little
ones in America
that people forget about.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>COLEMAN: There
was a new tapir,
which is the creature
with a little snout,
discovered in Brazil
just three years ago--
new animals, new
apes all the time.
>>NOORY: We use the
phrase "cryptids" a lot.
What are they?
>>COLEMAN: "Cryptids"
is just a word
to describe the animals that
cryptozoology is looking for.
>>NOORY: A-ha.
>>COLEMAN: But it also
has the connotation
that they're unknown.
For instance, if I get
a sighting from a lake,
and somebody sees an
object in that lake,
it's a cryptid until
we can figure out,
is that an alligator?
Is it an unknown creature?
Is it just a wave and a mistake?
So they're cryptids,
really describes
the unknown part of it.
>>NOORY: The Loch Ness Monster--
would it still be
considered a cryptid--
>>COLEMAN: Oh,
yeah, until it's--
>>NOORY: --at this point,
until it's identified?
>>COLEMAN: Absolutely, because
it's not been identified.
And it's not
conclusively been proven
to be a hoax, even
though a lot of people
come forward every
two years saying
they know the answer for
the Loch Ness Monster.
>>NOORY: Well, that brings
up another question,
too, because so many people
see so many different things.
They're seeing something,
whether it's Bigfoot,
the Loch Ness Monster, Mothman.
We'll get into Mothman.
You've got a new
book out on that.
What are they seeing?
>>COLEMAN: Well, even within
any category of cryptid,
you have people seeing
multiple experiences.
In other words, you can say
you saw the Loch Ness Monster.
But it could be
something with humps.
It could just be a large body
on the surface of the water.
Or it could be waves.
So even within any
category, there's
different manifestations.
But all across
cryptozoology, there
is literally hundreds
of different cryptids,
different expeditions out there,
different studies going on,
different people
writing different books.
So there's a vast
universe in cryptozoology.
>>NOORY: It's an amazing field.
And there's a cryptozoologist.
His name is Taylor
James Johnson.
>>COLEMAN: Right.
>>NOORY: And he talks
about your field.
>> I think there's an inherent
psychological condition whereby
humans really crave and
desire a little bit of mystery
in our lives, a little
bit of intrigue.
I think, deep down, that we
like to think that perhaps there
are things out there that we
don't quite understand, things
that go bump in the dark.
And it brings a sense of
adventure to our lives.
A lot of cryptozoologists,
you know, it's a very--
there's kind of an emotional
attachment to the subject
matter, because when
you're talking about things
like Bigfoot, things like we're
out here investigating now
that have almost a
legendary tinge to them,
it strikes on a nerve
that we have as humans.
But from a scientific
point of view,
I think that you
actually have to--
you have to be willing
to debunk and reject
things that don't fit into
the accepted theory or into,
you know, common sense.
>>NOORY: What is it, Loren?
What is it that drives people
to look for these creatures?
>>COLEMAN: I really
think that it's
a combination of two things.
People are always
interested in mysteries.
And a great majority of humans
are interested in animals.
So you have the
combination, put together
with this enormous
curious passion.
You want to discover
what's going on.
You want to find the cryptids.
You want to know the
answer to your questions.
And so there's-- when
I started this in 1960,
Ivan Sanderson and I
would talk about it.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: And there were
a handful of people--
five, six.
There's thousands
around the world,
now, interested
in cryptozoology.
>>NOORY: You would
think, though,
with thousands of
people investigating,
that we would find these
creatures once and for all.
>>COLEMAN: We do.
We find them all the time.
It's just that the celebrity
cryptids, as I call them--
you know, Bigfoot, Yeti, Loch
Ness Monster, and the sea
serpents, aren't found.
And they're still
kind of on a shelf.
For instance, can
you imagine what
science feels about a
creature called Bigfoot?
>>NOORY: I know.
>>COLEMAN: So we're already up
against the wall with the name.
>>NOORY: All right.
Let's talk about
Bigfoot for a second.
>>COLEMAN: Sure.
>>NOORY: You have taught
us of a creature called
Gigantus pithecus, right?
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: Which is
an apelike animal
down in the Florida region.
People are seeing a creature.
There's no doubt in my mind.
They're seeing something
that looks apelike.
I don't think there's
morons running around
in apelike costumes all
the time, because they're
going to get shot at.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, especially
in the South, yes.
>>NOORY: Or something's
going to happen.
so folks are looking at this.
But why can't we
get one of them?
And I don't necessarily
say, let's shoot it
and capture it that way.
But why can't we find one and
say, here you go world, look?
>>COLEMAN: Well, I think
they're very elusive.
They're very intelligent.
I mean, if you think of all
of the apes or the primates,
the one that's closest to
the intelligence of humans
has to be Bigfoot.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: Grover Krantz
and I once talked about,
statistically, for
every 10,000 black bear,
there's one Bigfoot.
And if you remember that
case of the Atlanta bomber--
>>NOORY: Mm-hm.
>>COLEMAN: --he hid in the woods
of North Carolina for three
years.
And here, you had the whole
United States government
looking for this one man.
>>NOORY: And they
couldn't find him.
>>COLEMAN: They
How was he finally found?
He was raiding a garbage dump.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: And that,
I think, is how
you're going to find Bigfoot.
A lumber truck is going
to hit one on a road.
One is going to be near
some kind of area of eating
and will get shot.
But there's no concerted effort
right now-- there's no money,
there's no museums,
there's no zoos looking
for these animals the way they
were during the Victorian Age.
It's kind of haphazard.
And that's not a good way
to look for a new animal.
>>NOORY: How do most people
describe Bigfoot, Loren,
in terms of its appearance?
>>COLEMAN: Well,
in general, Bigfoot
is 6 and 1/2 to 8 feet tall.
That's for the adult. The colors
are black to reddish brown.
There's hair all
over their bodies.
Sometimes, they're
talked about as having
a slightly pointed head,
and some vocalizations that
seem to be a primitive
form of communication.
They have footprints that
are like our human footprint,
but 18 to 20 inches long.
The Yeti, for instance,
has a footprint
that's more like our hand is--
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>COLEMAN: --more like an ape.
And so that's where you
have the distinction.
In Florida, you
have the skunk ape.
And then, all across the
South, the lower South,
you have the Booger, the
Honey Island Swamp Monster.
Those are all
apelike anthropoids
that have feet that look like
this, that look like your hand.
>>NOORY: How are
people describing
the face of this thing?
>>COLEMAN: A lot of people
think that they're humanlike,
but they're really not.
There's more hair all
over the face of Bigfoot.
Their nose is much flatter.
It doesn't have the hood
to it like humans do.
>>NOORY: Is it more apelike?
>>COLEMAN: Much more apelike.
There's actually some
considered opinion
that if you look at some
of the old drawings,
their face comes
forward much more
like a chimpanzee or a gorilla.
>>NOORY: And of course,
there's been some attempts
to get DNA samples
of these creatures.
>> All right, back to that
story that had a lot of people
talking in the newsroom
today of the video,
purportedly of Bigfoot,
new video there.
Dr. Melba Ketchum is a believer.
She's also the director of
the Sasquatch DNA Project.
She's our guest this afternoon.
And I'm sure that you get a
lot of people who say, come on.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> What's this done to you?
You said it's been actually
kind of hard on you.
>> Oh, it's been rather painful.
I was naive when
I went into this.
I thought science would
welcome new information
if it was available.
I didn't believe it.
I didn't think they existed
when I started this.
>> But you do believe it now?
>> Oh, yes, have to believe it.
Not only does the
DNA data prove it,
but I've actually seen them
at this point, brought--
some of the people that were at
our news conference invited me.
And I actually
have seen them now.
>> Now, the DNA here that
we're talking about--
how is it found?
How is it extracted?
>> There were a bunch of groups
that were out to look and find
the DNA, especially the Erickson
project with Adrian Erickson.
They actually had a PhD
on staff and a manager.
They spent untold
amount of money
to not only
accomplish the video,
but to collect forensically
sound DNA samples.
And my basis is in forensics.
So the chain of
custody was intact.
>> Well, now, the "Houston
Chronicle" tested this, though.
And they sort of
questioned your findings.
>> No, the "Houston
Chronicle" did not test it.
The lab that they wanted us
to share with did not test it.
They wanted to look
at some of the genome.
They didn't even get
the whole genome.
They did a very cursory thing.
I absolutely--
they wouldn't even
talk to me on the
phone about it.
>> Hm.
Now, people will look at
the video and the pictures
that we have.
And it seems like it's
always grainy, or strange,
or what have you.
How come it's never clear
if this is out there?
>> They are a type of people.
They're a human
hybrid, we believe.
And all the DNA
evidence points to that.
And they can elude us.
And therefore, if
you get it at all,
it's going to be
very fleeting, and--
though Adrian Erickson
has absolutely gotten
some beautiful video,
especially a full facial shot,
where she turns and
actually looks at you.
>> Who funds this?
How do you get the money
to go forward with this?
Because there are so many
people out there that just--
they don't believe in this.
>> Well, actually, the
majority of the money came from
an entrepreneur, Wally Hersom,
out of Henderson, Nevada.
And the other portion
came from Adrian Erickson.
They're both entrepreneurs.
And they're interested
in the subject matter
and were willing to fund the
study, because they wanted
to prove that it exists--
existed and does exist.
And we just happened to be
the lab that ended up with it.
>> And yet, there are a lot
of people out there who still
don't believe.
So the work's not done yet.
>> No.
I mean, they're not
going to believe it.
A lot of people are not going to
believe it till we have a body.
But we don't--
we're not pro-kill.
They're a type of person.
That's murder.
>> Uh-huh.
>> So you cannot kill them.
>> OK, interesting topic.
Thanks for joining
us this afternoon.
>> Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: Interesting
take, Loren.
What about the DNA?
>>COLEMAN: Well,
for one thing, one
of the reasons that people
respect me in this field
is that I'm open
minded, but skeptical.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: Her results
have really been disputed.
And I'm on the side
of the dispute.
>>NOORY: Yes.
It's more like a bear or
something like that, samples?
>>COLEMAN: Well, her
conclusions that the Bigfoot
DNA that she found is part
angel and part Neanderthal just
doesn't go.
Bryan Sykes, who did
the follow-up study,
really did a good job.
We don't know what Bigfoot is.
But DNA is the future.
We need to catch Bigfoot
through the DNA first.
I agree with her.
We shouldn't be killing them.
>>NOORY: I agree.
>>COLEMAN: I'm in
the no-kill camp.
>>NOORY: I agree.
I hate it when people
call the show and say,
I'm going to go out
and shoot Bigfoot.
>>COLEMAN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: No, no, no, no, no.
>>NOORY: I'd rather it escape--
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --before you kill it.
>>COLEMAN: Her work actually
destroyed about 130 samples
that, if we would have
tested them more correctly,
we might have had
some good, sound--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>COLEMAN: And so
a lot of people
do not like what she did.
But there's-- that's
part of Bigfoot--
you know, Bigfoot studies,
is that there's conflict
between different divisions.
And the people in
it are sometimes
as interesting to
study as the creatures.
>>NOORY: And Loren, in the
very grainy film we just
looked at, you can tell there's
an object out there somewhere.
>>COLEMAN: Right.
>>NOORY: But you
really don't know.
It could be a man
just walking around.
>>COLEMAN: Right.
>>NOORY: Who knows, right?
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
I mean, one of the downsides
of all of the cell phones
and all of the videotaping
that has occurred
is, it's actually
lowered the quality.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>COLEMAN: In 1967, whenever
the Patterson-Gimlin film was
taken, that was done
with a real camera.
So you can actually
enhance it with a computer.
Those film analyses really
is the gold standard.
And this kind of
video is really junk--
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>COLEMAN: --garbage
in, garbage out.
And we're seeing a lot
of that on YouTube.
>>NOORY: And you can't really
decipher what we just saw.
>>COLEMAN: Right.
>>NOORY: I mean,
all you could see
is something in the
background somewhere.
>>COLEMAN: Right.
It is-- the whole jokes
about, all of them are blurry,
happens to be true.
>>NOORY: It is true.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Do you think
we'll ever find out
exactly what's going on with
a creature like Bigfoot?
>>COLEMAN: I think so.
But a lot of people
lack patience nowadays.
It's kind of the Twitter,
MTV generation, where people
want the results
instantaneous, yet we
know that it took 70-some years
to discover the giant panda,
the mountain gorilla.
And those were
concerted efforts.
You have, what's going on now,
a lot of this quickness to it.
But we have to be patient.
It's like building the pyramids.
It's not going to
happen overnight.
>>NOORY: Are we
still getting stories
of the Abominable
Snowman in the Himalayas?
I haven't heard
anything in a long time.
>>COLEMAN: They're
not as frequent.
There is a body of people
that think the yetis have all
gone extinct.
And maybe, maybe so.
What we do know is going on is
that some of the DNA analysis
is showing that there's
bears involved in a higher
number than what people
were thinking about
in the '20s and the
'50s, that there are
some kind of new
bears over there
that may be an answer
to some of the yetis.
And actually, a
lot of the people
talked about three kinds
of yetis, a smaller one,
the Meh-Teh, the manlike
one, and the Denzo-Teh,
which was taller.
And that may be a giant
unknown bear, which
would be just as exciting.
>>NOORY: It would be exciting.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It sure would be.
You've established a crypto
museum in Portland, Maine.
Tell me about the museum.
>>COLEMAN: Well, in 2003, I
decided I had so many things
from almost 60 years of
collecting that I founded
the International
Cryptozoology Museum at--
now it's at Thompson's
Point, Portland, Maine.
It has 10,000 artifacts
from all over the world--
yeti material.
It has Sir Edmund
Hillary's hair samples--
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>COLEMAN: --Tom Slick hair
samples from '59 and '60.
>>NOORY: Classics.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
And then we have a
model of a Bigfoot
that's eight foot tall
that's the Crookston
Bigfoot from Minnesota.
And those kinds of things
went into the museum.
And we've slowly,
over the years, we're
now an established site.
We actually, two years
ago, built a museum
from the ground up,
two stories tall.
It's in--
>>NOORY: Public can go?
>>COLEMAN: Oh, yeah, definitely.
>>NOORY: Anybody can go?
>>COLEMAN: It's
open to the public.
It's a 501(c)(3).
It's a nonprofit.
It's the only
nonprofit cryptozoology
museum in the world.
And it definitely became, if I
will build it, they will come.
It's just been--
>>NOORY: Perfect.
>>COLEMAN: so
fantastically popular.
>>NOORY: One of those
who came was CBS News.
>> These are actual
casts of Bigfoot.
>> (VOICEOVER) Loren Coleman
thinks the whole field
of cryptozoology
deserves more respect.
>> A lot of people would like to
put it in some kind of category
of pseudoscience.
And we really reject that.
This is what we call
our little Bigfoot.
>> Wow.
>> (VOICEOVER) He founded the
world's only cryptozoology
museum in Portland, Maine.
Its logo is a strange-looking
fish called a coelacanth.
It was thought to be
extinct for 65 million years
until one was found in 1938.
>> It's a living fossil.
And actually, the
word "living fossil"
is first associated
with this fish.
>> (VOICEOVER) True that Western
science has been wrong before.
Coleman points to
the giant squid.
Once dismissed as a mythological
creature called the kraken,
I'm told they started washing
up onshore in the 1800s.
The giant panda was believed
to be some weird mutation
until Ruth Harkness
went to China
and brought one
back alive in 1936.
>> The fur-bearing trout.
Some people--
>> This is fake.
>> This is definitely fake.
>> (VOICEOVER) And though
there are plenty of hoaxes out
there--
>> Of course, the jackalope.
>> This is the jackalope.
>> And above it is
the wolpertinger--
>> Aw.
>> --which is a
Bavarian Alps version--
>> A bunny with wings?
>> Right.
>> (VOICEOVER) --Loren Coleman
says there are still many
mysteries yet to be explained.
>>NOORY: What a cool museum.
I got to get up there.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, thank you.
That's-- it's really been fun.
And I meet people from
all over the world.
It's just fantastic.
>>NOORY: What kind of
crowds do you get there?
>>COLEMAN: Oh, we get
about 15,000 a year or so.
On Saturdays and Sundays,
it can be totally filled.
And we get people
from Japan, and Spain,
and even from Colorado.
>>NOORY: So that's great.
What fascinates
people the most when
they go through the museum?
>>COLEMAN: Well, there
are personal favorites.
Some people like the mermaid.
Some people like the Bigfoot,
the Loch Ness Monster.
But you have all
kinds of favorites
according to your own interest.
Chupacabras, for instance--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>COLEMAN: --really
fascinate people.
>>NOORY: That fish
was interesting.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, the coelacanth.
>>NOORY: It had little
bitey teeth, too, didn't it?
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
Oh, yes.
>>NOORY: Ouch.
>>COLEMAN: The coelacanth is
actually closer related to you
than it is to bony
fish, because it is--
>>NOORY: You're saying I look
like one of those fish, Loren?
>>COLEMAN: No, no, no.
You're a human.
It's more closely related
to humans than regular fish,
because they're very ancient.
They're like lungfish.
>>NOORY: Huh.
Is it still around--
>>COLEMAN: Oh, yes.
>>NOORY: --or is it extinct?
>>COLEMAN: 1938, they
found the first one,
as far as Western science.
The locals had been eating them.
They thought it tasted awful.
So they put a lot
of spices on it.
They call it Gombessa.
They have now found about 250.
And most of them
are in museums now,
because they're such a rare,
important fish in terms
of cryptozoology and zoology
that they don't eat them
anymore.
They don't kill them
and cut them up.
They preserve them.
>>NOORY: How big
are they, like that?
>>COLEMAN: No.
It's 5 and 1/2 to 6 feet long.
>>NOORY: No.
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
They're gigantic.
>>NOORY: That's a big fish.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, very big.
>>NOORY: And what about colors?
>>COLEMAN: Well, the funny
thing is, in 1998, they
discovered a whole new species
off of Indonesia that's
more brown.
But that original color of
the ones from the '30s--
>>NOORY: Looked a little
bluish, didn't it?
>>COLEMAN: Very
blue, metallic blue.
Unfortunate thing
is, when they die,
and they often-- they're
a deep, deep sea fish.
They come to the surface,
swim around, and die.
They turn brown.
So a lot of people think
that they're brown,
because actually, they're
on stamps nowadays.
And most of the stamps,
they show them as blue.
But there was one country
that made the mistake
and showed them as brown.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I mean, how does
science find these creatures?
They stumble into
them, I guess, right?
>>COLEMAN: Right.
Well, that one, for
instance, in South Africa,
there's a little museum.
And a woman who was
the director would
go down to the shore,
the dock every day,
and see people that would
dump their fish hauls.
And right in the middle of
one of these piles of fish
was a coelacanth.
And it was bright blue--
>>NOORY: A smaller
one, no doubt.
>>COLEMAN: No, no, it
was the actual first one.
We have the replica
of the first one--
>>NOORY: OK.
>>COLEMAN: --5
and 1/2 feet long.
And she said, I didn't--
I walked down there.
So I had to put it
in the back of a taxi
to get back to the museum.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>COLEMAN: And so she didn't
make a taxi driver very happy.
But she discovered it.
She found out that it was a
fish from 65 million years
ago that nobody had seen.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, it
was very exciting.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
What other exciting
things are out there,
do you think, as
a cryptozoologist?
What would just
knock your socks off?
>>COLEMAN: I think
that we're very
close to finding some
of the things that
are being called sea serpents.
I think there's probably--
>>NOORY: A-ha.
>>COLEMAN: --a long, maybe not
60, 100 feet long, but 20 feet,
40 feet long, that may
be an ancient whale,
a prehistoric whale.
We're finding new
dolphins all the time.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: So it's
quite exciting to think,
there could be a new fish
that's not a fish but actually
a mammal, because people are
making a mistake all the time.
Sea serpents, and loch monsters,
and lake monsters actually
go through the water like this.
>>NOORY: Could be
a big eel, right?
>>COLEMAN: Well, what
we know is, the fish
and reptiles go through
the water like this.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>COLEMAN: And so
what is unknown is
some kind of large mammal.
So the whole misnomer
of saying "sea serpent,"
they're not reptiles.
It's some kind of
sea monster that
is probably a large unknown
seal or a large unknown whale.
And I think, because there's
so much going on in the oceans
now, it's really
the new outer space.
They're pouring money
into exploring the oceans
versus outer space right now.
And so we'll find something.
>>NOORY: "20,000
Leagues Under the Sea,"
we would talk about huge,
squid-looking objects
and stuff.
What do you think
the biggest squid
might be in terms
of-- from tentacle
to the back of the body?
>>COLEMAN: Well,
they have reports
off of New Zealand of ones
that are over 100 feet long.
>>NOORY: 100 feet?
>>COLEMAN: 100 feet long.
We know that they've found
ones that are 40 feet long.
>>NOORY: And do they wrap
around ships and stuff?
>>COLEMAN: They could.
They could.
And they certainly seem to wrap
around whales and have fights.
And so you find huge scars from
these large, you know, squid.
And squid is, of course,
something that was found--
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>COLEMAN: --more recently.
And so that's a new cryptid
that became a real animal.
>>NOORY: How'd you like that
calamari for dinner, huh?
>>COLEMAN: I don't eat meat.
>>NOORY: From a 100-foot squid?
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: How big
are their eyeballs?
>>COLEMAN: Oh, they're-- they
keep using the word "dinner
plates."
But the dinner plates
keep getting bigger,
because their eyes-- and
they're very intelligent.
As far as any invertebrate,
they're the most intelligent--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>COLEMAN: --one, yes.
And so they're thinking,
they seem to remember.
They remember some of their
enemies as far as certain fish.
>>NOORY: Could they
attack a swimmer?
>>COLEMAN: They could.
They could.
Most of them don't, because they
use flight as opposed to fight.
The reason that they get
in fights with whales
is because the whales
eat them, like the--
>>NOORY: Oh, they do?
>>COLEMAN: --the
big sperm whale.
They're mostly--
>>NOORY: Who wins the
fights most of the time?
>>COLEMAN: 50/50.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>COLEMAN: But I think
most of the time, the sperm
whales eat them.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And what
would a squid eat?
>>COLEMAN: What
They'll eat anything
that gets in its way.
No, they eat a lot
of little fish.
They eat--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: --you know, plankton,
some of them, probably.
So--
>>NOORY: I mean, if--
when you say it could
be 100 feet long,
the tentacles are how long?
>>COLEMAN: Well, that would
include some of the tentacles.
The giant squid have two
extremely long tentacles
that go out.
And a lot of squid, they
lose those in the fights
with the sperm whales.
But the actual squid,
upwards of 80 feet
without the long ones
going out further.
They're massive.
And you know, some of
the missing swimmers
and some of the missing divers
could be regarding those squid.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>COLEMAN: It's
grave danger, yeah.
>>NOORY: When you look
at all the cryptids
that you've studied, what is
some of your favorite ones?
>>COLEMAN: Well, I'm very
much into first love.
And we all are.
And so yetis are always
going to be my favorite.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>COLEMAN: I also
really do acknowledge
that humans are narcissistic.
And the favorite
cryptic for most people
is Bigfoot, because Bigfoot has
this reflective, noble savage--
it's a hairy version of us.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: And so people--
>>NOORY: Somewhat
human, somewhat animal.
>>COLEMAN: And I know, after
15 years at the museum,
people come in.
The number-one thing that
they want to talk about
is Bigfoot, because they
want to know where they are,
have I seen one?
And I haven't.
I've found footprints
and all of that.
But it very much is a
focus for a lot of people.
But then you go off.
People from New Jersey like
to talk about the New Jersey
Devil, which is kind of a
conglomerate of a flying horse.
Really, 1909 was when the
Jersey Devil reports were.
People from New
Mexico and Arizona
want to talk about chupacabras.
So you get the local
favorites that keep coming up.
And that's very
much my favorite.
I think one of the things that
does happen to me in the field
is that cryptozoology
is so exciting.
Every day, there's a
new cryptid report.
Every day, there's
old ones to review.
Like, I was just
reading this morning,
we're in the
dozen-year anniversary
for the Pine Ridge, South
Dakota reports of Bigfoot.
The native peoples, which
are closer to the earth
and closer to some of
their spiritual ancestors,
have some very good
reports that are ongoing.
And they keep it
quiet, because Bigfoot
is part of their landscape.
>>NOORY: They don't want
the publicity, do they?
>>COLEMAN: They don't
want the publicity.
They don't want--
the tribal police
are the ones that talked
to me a lot 10 years ago
and 12 years ago.
They were getting reports with
their new drug enforcement
equipment as far
as their dash cams.
They were recording
so many things--
>>NOORY: They were seeing them.
>>COLEMAN: They
were seeing them.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
>>COLEMAN: And it
was very exciting.
And then they got
so much attention
from the rest of the
population, they shut it down,
because they wanted to keep--
they call it Big
Man or Tall Man.
They wanted to shut down
their Bigfoot reports.
>>NOORY: John Kell brought
us "Mothman Prophecies--"
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: --and of
course, opened up
an entire genre of cryptozoology
with this creature.
>> The Mothman, as
its name suggests,
is a humanoid cryptid described
as having glowing red eyes
and large wings, like a moth.
While the Mothman has
remained in the zeitgeist
and has become a major symbolic
figure in the local area,
sightings of the creature
have been relatively rare
until it was captured by a local
while driving down the highway.
The man, who wished to remain
anonymous, spotted the creature
and captured it on film.
The event occurred just a week
after the original sighting
of the creature 50 years prior.
>>NOORY: And you've got a new
book coming out on Mothman.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah,
it just came out.
It's called "Mothman--
Evil Incarnate."
>>NOORY: Ooh.
>>COLEMAN: In 2002, I
did my first Mothman book
in conjunction with
Sony Screen Gems--
>>NOORY: I remember that.
>>COLEMAN: --because they wanted
the real story about Mothman.
But what I noticed
afterwards, and including,
I think, a program with
you, where bad luck always
happens in these programs.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>COLEMAN: I go
upstairs in my house
after I was talking to you.
And the light bulb bursts.
>>NOORY: [LAUGHS]
>>COLEMAN: But also, what's
more important in the book,
I actually list the hundred
people connected to the Mothman
story who have died.
>>NOORY: Tragically, too.
>>COLEMAN: Tragically.
And suicides, youthful-- you
know, mysterious illnesses.
A lot of the movies
talk about curses--
the poltergeist curse.
>>NOORY: Wasn't there
a bridge collapse
involved in one of these?
>>COLEMAN: Oh, yes, yes.
That was in 1967.
It was actually
exactly 13 months
after the first publicized
Mothman sightings.
You had the bridge collapse.
46 people died on that bridge.
It also-- they found out
the cause of that collapse
was I-bar 13 broke.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>COLEMAN: And the other thing,
Mary Hyre was the reporter that
was in conjunction with
John Keel doing all of the--
and she died very mysteriously
at 42 years of age, two times
13, 26 months after
the bridge collapsed.
>>NOORY: That's weird.
>>COLEMAN: And the director
of the "Mothman Prophecies"
movie, Mark Pellington,
the summer after the movie
came out, his wife got a
very mysterious illness,
died rapidly at 42 years old.
>>NOORY: How do you explain
these bizarre anomalies?
>>COLEMAN: We don't know.
And that's why I tried
to say in the book,
they're all very mysterious.
It's almost as if the
cryptid Mothman has really
morphed into almost a
spiritual fear animal that
has energy and entities.
Everybody that is connected
with in-depth Mothman stories
and investigations
tend to have accidents.
I lost a younger brother.
I lost a mother.
I lost some people
close to me as I
was doing these investigations.
They sometimes-- sometimes,
whatever they is--
Mothman doesn't actually
go for the eyewitness
or go for the investigator.
The bad luck
happens around them.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>COLEMAN: So the week
that, for instance,
the Mothman movie
came out in 2002,
the city of Point Pleasant
was overwhelmed with a lot
of funerals, because of lot
of eyewitnesses' brothers
and sisters were dying--
>>NOORY: Who died.
>>COLEMAN: --very mysteriously.
>>NOORY: That's bizarre.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Defying
logic and odds, right?
>>COLEMAN: And statistics.
Because, like, "The Exorcist"
movie, the "Poltergeist" movie,
they talk about those curses.
It's usually four
or five people.
You have a hundred people
connected with Mothman
that have died.
>>NOORY: That's too much.
It's weird.
>>COLEMAN: It does get
scary and overwhelming.
And I'm not one to
usually get scared,
because people often
ask me, well, what would
you do if you met Bigfoot?
I would go interview it.
I wouldn't run, you know?
So-- but Mothman--
>>NOORY: Unless it was
coming at you, right?
>>COLEMAN: [LAUGHS]
Mothman's a little different.
There's something more
sinister around it.
>>NOORY: It seems to be.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And with this
creature, has anybody
ever tried to tie in
extraterrestrials with it?
>>COLEMAN: Oh, sure.
>>NOORY: That it
might be, you know,
some kind of being
from another world?
>>COLEMAN: Well, the
whole thing about Mothman
is, it lends itself to
extraordinary explanations.
You have the Men in Black.
You have UFOs going up and
down the Ohio River Valley.
You have John Keel being
involved, who was--
he actually-- I
interviewed him a lot
before he died for my books.
And he said, I'm not
a ufologist, Loren.
I'm a demonologist.
He felt he was--
>>NOORY: That was
his expertise, yeah.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
He felt he was actually
looking into the Mothman
as a demonic form, as an
ultraterrestrial, as he
called it.
>>NOORY: This creature--
kind of describe--
we saw a little video of it.
But kind of describe what
it apparently looks like.
>>COLEMAN: Well, the thing, if
you back up into the Mothman
story, you'll find out that
before all of this demonology
happened, John Keel was
talking to Ivan Sanderson
and giving him this description.
It's about six feet tall.
It's birdlike.
It has two large wings
that come down to its side.
It seems to be able to go right
up by making its wings go out
and then flying very quickly.
It can chase a car
down the highway,
60 to 100 miles an hour.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>COLEMAN: It has two eyes that
most people describe as red.
But it's always red glowing from
other forms of light, like a--
you know, headlights on
a car, a street light,
whatever, it's like that.
So it was an
animal-like creature.
And so Sanderson was saying,
I think it's a big bird.
I think it's some
kind of unknown bird--
>>NOORY: Like a big owl,
or something like that.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah,
actually an owl.
There's a friend
of mine who died
in the last two
years, Mark Hall, who
wrote a book on thunderbirds.
And he did a whole
chapter about Mothman.
He called it Big Hoot.
And it wasn't a joke.
He really was trying to
say, this was a giant owl.
There were owls that were
four feet tall in Cuba,
prehistoric times.
And so it could be one of those.
But what quickly evolved
is that Keel found out
that people were dying, people
were committing suicide,
people were actually reporting
Bigfoot in the same area,
were reporting
cattle mutilations,
were reporting what they
would call Men in Black.
And so all of that was going on.
And so these
different theories--
was it a CIA experiment?
Was it--
>>NOORY: That went awry, maybe?
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
Was it UFO-involved aliens?
>>NOORY: So this--
this creature,
this Mothman creature that
could be extraterrestrial,
could be a large owl,
could be anything,
as you write in your
book, "Mothman--
Evil Incarnate," you suspect
that all these tragedies that
have occurred have something
to do with Mothman, don't you?
>>COLEMAN: I definitely
think there's
a difference with Mothman.
It's not a regular
sort of cryptid.
There's almost a psychological
component to Mothman reports
that nobody's really touched.
And that's what I try
to do in the book.
It's really evil incarnate.
It's really, something
about Mothman
makes people experience evil or
actually has evil around them.
>>NOORY: Bad things happen.
>>COLEMAN: And that's--
it's just the facts.
>>NOORY: It's not bad luck.
It's got to be something else.
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: Right?
>>COLEMAN: Right.
And we don't know yet.
>>NOORY: I don't believe
in coincidence, Loren.
>>COLEMAN: Right.
>>NOORY: And one would
say, well, come on, now.
These things will happen.
But a hundred people?
That's crazy.
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
The statistics
really go in favor
of it looking like there's
enemy action, you know?
>>NOORY: Has anybody described
what the feet look like?
>>COLEMAN: Well, that's
one of the things
that I studied and
talk about in the book,
is that in the early days,
which I mean '66 and '67,
it was really seen as having
wings, not having a head,
but actually having a
sort of slight depression.
And the head would
come out of the chest.
That, you can imagine
an owl looking that way.
>>NOORY: That's kind
of like an owl, right?
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>COLEMAN: And yet, what has
happened, the eyewitnesses,
as they were interviewed
over, and over,
and over on these
reality TV shows,
have come up with
humanlike descriptions--
>>NOORY: Features.
>>COLEMAN: --that
weren't there before.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: They
talk about a head.
They talk about feet.
They even now have
images of Mothman
with hands at the
ends of the wings.
>>NOORY: Still wings, yeah.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
But all of that is
really part and parcel
of the media
contagion that occurs,
that there's really
something going on
with people
elaborating the story
and making it more fantastic.
And actually, early
cryptozoologists in the '20s
and '30s would talk about,
most of these cryptids, most
of these creatures that
were seen by native peoples,
Western society takes it in
and makes them fantastic.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>COLEMAN: The Abominable
Snowman, for instance,
is just a local
apelike creature.
But Western people--
>>NOORY: It's a legend now.
>>COLEMAN: The legend
now, Western people
brought it in, and made it
gigantic, and made it white,
and made it horrific.
And that's what Western
society does to it.
And it's happened with Mothman.
>>NOORY: You know,
there's that old adage
that if you have
30 people lined up,
and you tell a story to one,
and they pass it through,
it's totally different by the
time you get to the other end.
Could be this way
with Mothman, too.
>>COLEMAN: Oh, I
definitely think it's true.
And I think we see it in a
lot of ghost stories and UFO
stories.
Almost anything in what now
is called the paranormal
really gets exaggerated.
And certainly, some of
these reality TV programs
live on that.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>COLEMAN: They live on
it being more elaborate,
when I think the mystery
itself, the factual mystery
of these creatures,
is enough to keep me
going and enough to keep
a lot of people going.
>>NOORY: Would you be
shocked or surprised
if Mothman ended up
being a large bird?
>>COLEMAN: No, I wouldn't.
And I think that part
of the story of Mothman
is a large bird.
And what I do in my books
is look back to the 1920s,
back to 100 years ago, when
the native peoples were
talking about it.
And they were talking about
flying heads, a creature--
and even the jalopy
reports of people
being chased by large owls.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>COLEMAN: So I think--
I think the essence of a
real animal is underneath it.
>>NOORY: I know we used to talk
about thunderbirds a lot more.
And I remember that
story you told us
about a woman who went outside.
Her little boy was
being picked up by one.
And she's swatting
it with a broom.
>>COLEMAN: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: And it dropped him.
>>COLEMAN: The Marlow Lowe
story in Logan County, Illinois.
>>NOORY: I mean, could
Mothman be a thunderbird?
>>COLEMAN: It could be.
It could be.
I think the distinction there
is that the thunderbirds--
and there's lots of reports
going on in southern Alaska,
by the way, right now.
>>NOORY: Still?
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
And those reports tend to
look like a giant condor,
some kind of large bird that--
from the Pleistocene.
>>NOORY: With a 10-
or 12-foot wingspan.
>>COLEMAN: Yes, absolutely.
>>NOORY: They're huge.
>>COLEMAN: They
actually existed.
Most people think
they're extinct,
but they might still exist,
whereas the ones in Appalachia,
which are the reports of
the Mothman-like creature--
and Mothman's just a local name.
But they look like giant owls.
>>NOORY: That would be
astounding to see, wouldn't it?
>>COLEMAN: Oh, yeah.
And it would be--
>>NOORY: Wouldn't it be scary?
If you saw an owl, six or
seven feet, sitting on a road,
just standing there, that
would be kind of jarring.
>>COLEMAN: Well, part
of what they seem to do
is, they're able to
fold up their wings
and look like a tree trunk.
So a lot of people are driving
along in West Virginia.
They never see them.
They think it's a tree trunk.
And they also--
>>NOORY: And then
they move, right?
>>COLEMAN: Right.
And some of the reports of
Bigfoot standing near trees
maybe these Big Hoots.
>>NOORY: That could be, too.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Romantically, don't
we want to believe
that these creatures are
much more than something
that could be natural?
>>COLEMAN: A lot of people
do, but a lot of people
are romantic zoologists.
And they're very happy to--
>>NOORY: Just get an answer.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah,
just get an answer,
and to know that
they're part of zoology.
Like you said earlier,
it's a very unknown world.
There's lots of
animals out there.
And there are lots of mysteries.
So we may go either way.
But the other thing
is that a lot of us
tend to not want
to be pigeonholed.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: So a lot
of people come to me,
and they say, you're
a cryptozoologist.
You must think that
all of these creatures
have a natural, you know,
zoological explanation.
That's my basis.
I have degrees in
zoology and anthropology.
But I'm open minded enough--
I'm a Fortian, a
follower of Charles Fort.
And so I can look across--
maybe UFOs are involved.
Maybe fourth-dimensional
beings are involved.
I don't concentrate
on those, but that
doesn't mean that I don't
accept the possibilities.
>>NOORY: Well,
the easiest answer
is the most obvious answer
most of the time, you know?
We-- you know, if somebody
sees a flying object, most
of the time, one could say
it's a satellite, or a plane,
or something like that.
But there's always that
hidden little possibility
that it's something else.
And I think that's what drives
people like you and me, Loren,
to keep looking
for these answers.
>>COLEMAN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: We want to find
out what's going on.
>>COLEMAN: Right, right.
And I think the
even easier answer
is, those people that are
total debunkers, that they say,
they don't exist, you know, no--
>>NOORY: No matter what.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, no news here.
Move on.
But we now know from studies
that fakes and hoaxes
are only 1% of all the reports.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>COLEMAN: They get 95% of the
publicity, 95% of the newspaper
stories.
They'd rather have a hoax
story, because it has
a beginning, middle, and end.
And they can move on to
their politics story.
>>NOORY: When I talked with
Linda Moulton Howe about crop
formations, and I say,
you do know most of them
are probably hoaxes,
most of them?
And she gets all
upset, because she
wants to believe that
these things are real.
And I said, but Linda, you
didn't hear what I said.
I said, most of them
are probably hoaxes.
That means, if
there's just one that
is made under some kind of
supernatural environment,
that's a major story.
And I said, I'm saying
that's a possibility.
And then she stops and goes,
hm, maybe you're right.
>>COLEMAN: It's like the
line in the movie, you know?
You mean, one in a million?
There's a chance.
And there is.
We have to be
realistic about it.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Loch Ness creatures
and lake monsters--
tell me about your
expertise there.
>>COLEMAN: Well, I went on
expedition 1999 to Loch Ness.
I've written a book called "The
Field Guide to Lake Monsters
and Sea Serpents."
So I've really examined it.
I've been to the lakes
all over the country,
including to Quebec.
There's quite a few lakes up
there that have lake monsters.
Indeed, in my books,
I actually talk--
there's 1,000 lakes in the world
that have a defined monster.
>>NOORY: 1,000?
>>COLEMAN: 1,000.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>COLEMAN: That doesn't
mean that they're
all cryptids in the way
that we know cryptids.
>>NOORY: Right.
There could be 99% natural
animals and species.
>>COLEMAN: Right.
For instance, some of
these lake monsters
are said to look
like alligators.
Some of them, for
instance, in Utah,
I did a whole
chapter on the lake
monsters there that all seem
to look like giant beavers--
>>NOORY: Mm-hm.
>>COLEMAN: --from the
prehistoric times,
from an ice age,
from Pleistocene.
And if that's true,
then those connect up
with reports in Manitoba.
Manitoba has a lot of
lakes that report creatures
that are gigantic rodents.
And so you look at
these thousand lakes,
you've got to define them.
There's different
animals being reported.
And then there's the, you know,
maybe a hoax here, like in Lake
George in New York--
longtime hoax.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>COLEMAN: But there's also
ones that may be wave action.
The thing about lake monsters
that's sort of disappointing
is, you don't have physical
evidence the same way
you do with the land.
>>NOORY: Well,
scientists, for example,
looking for Nessie have been
looking for DNA samples.
Most recently, they're trying
to get DNA out of the loch--
>>COLEMAN: Right.
>>NOORY: --to determine
if Nessie's there.
>> There's a legend in
the Scottish highlands--
a legend of a mythical
monster in the murky depths
of Loch Ness.
And the myth lives on.
For centuries, people have
reported sightings and even
made references
to this creature.
Some people believe it is a
long-necked plesiosaur that
somehow survived the
extinction of the dinosaurs
65 million years ago.
And yet, it managed to
elude undeniable proof
of its existence.
But a team of scientists
are on the case.
They plan on taking 300
samples of the water
from different points
and depths of the lake.
They hope to catch tiny
fragments of DNA that
could help identify
different animal species
lurking within Loch
Ness's murky waters.
If the Loch Ness Monster does
exist, its days of hiding
could be numbered.
>>NOORY: So do you-- so do you
think they'll ever find DNA
evidence which will show that
Nessie is a creature from this
planet--
I don't think there's anything
supernatural about it,
but a creature that we just
never discovered before?
>>COLEMAN: I think there's
less likelihood that it's
creature we never discovered.
It's more likely that it's a
creature from 10,000 years ago.
>>NOORY: Ah, like a
plesiosaur, maybe?
>>COLEMAN: Well,
plesiosaur is 65 million.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: So I'm less likely--
if you're from the United
Kingdom and a scientist,
you think the plesiosaur
is their number-one answer.
If you're an American scientist
interested in lake monsters,
you really usually think
it's a mammal, a giant seal
or an ancient whale.
And so it may be one of those,
'cause once again, like the sea
serpents, lake monsters
move up and down,
which tells us
they're not a fish,
they're not a reptile, not
even a prehistoric reptile.
They're some kind of mammal.
>>NOORY: Years ago, Loren, there
was a "National Geographic"
picture--
I always will remember it--
that was a color
picture that I think
some Japanese
photographers took of what
looked like a flipper or
a fin deep in the loch.
And to me, it looked
like a plesiosaur fin.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, that's--
>>NOORY: I don't know if--
>>COLEMAN: That's Robert Rines.
He was a--
>>NOORY: Yeah, that was a--
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, Robert
Rines, a New York scientist.
And he did the side scanner.
So a flash of light goes off.
And they were able
to capture that.
They had to enhance a
little, which has been--
opened them to a
lot of criticism.
>>NOORY: It was
a flipper, right?
>>COLEMAN: But it was a flipper.
It looked like it was--
but you have flippers
on seals, too.
>>NOORY: Same-- same style?
>>COLEMAN: Same style.
So it's-- convergent evolution
gives us animals in water that
could be a dolphin, or a
seal, or actually, a shark.
So those kinds of
things look enough alike
that people are
getting confused--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: --because
they sometimes--
cryptozoologists get
bound up in explaining it.
And I'm kind of like Jack Webb.
Just give me the facts, ma'am.
>>NOORY: Facts, ma'am, yeah.
Just the facts.
>>COLEMAN: If we could
just have the facts--
let's look at the facts.
Let's see what's really here.
And then let's go
after the evidence.
>>NOORY: Stephen Alton says that
Nessie could be a large eel.
And he says there have been
some huge teeth discovered.
What do you think of that?
>>COLEMAN: Well, I think
that he's on better ground
by looking at some of the large
tracks found on Loch Ness'
shore that may be these eels.
>>NOORY: Like a snake, almost.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, like a snake.
We do know that there's larva
of eels that have been enormous.
So if that's the larva,
the adult must be huge.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLEMAN: And we think
that in some of the oceans,
he may be right.
>>NOORY: And they may
swim like you said, right?
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, they may be
able to do anything they want.
>>NOORY: But can you
imagine a 6-inch tooth?
>>COLEMAN: Yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: Unbelievable.
How would you like to
get chomped by that?
>>COLEMAN: No thanks.
>>NOORY: No, not at all.
What about Champy?
>>COLEMAN: Champ is
America's Loch Ness Monster.
Lake Champlain, there's been
active reports since 1812.
>>NOORY: And that's up
there near New York?
>>COLEMAN: It's actually New
York, Vermont, and Quebec.
They all share Lake Champlain.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>COLEMAN: And it's a huge lake.
It's very deep.
Loch Ness is 1,000 feet deep.
>>NOORY: That's a deep lake.
>>COLEMAN: It is deep.
And we know that there is
some depth to Lake Champlain.
And there is a way,
through water zones
and overland, to get
to Lake Champlain.
And there actually have been
some records of harbor seals
from the ocean in
Lake Champlain.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>COLEMAN: So there
may be something
there that we don't know about.
>>NOORY: Is that fresh water?
>>COLEMAN: It's
definitely fresh water.
There's been Japanese-- I've
been there with the Japanese.
I've been with other
expeditions all the time.
And so there's American
and English expeditions
going there.
It's kind of the hidden
lake monster in our backyard
that people sometimes would
go all the way to Scotland
to do Loch Ness--
>>NOORY: When it's right here.
>>COLEMAN: --when
that's right here.
>>NOORY: What does this tell
you about the humankind,
about where we're headed as we
contemplate all these cryptids
and creatures?
I think it's fascinating.
>>COLEMAN: I do too.
I think that it, as opposed to
the interest levels going down,
there's more young
people involved in this.
There's more people with higher
technology, with more DNA
studies, with a lot more
very good, credible reports.
I'm one of those
scientists that I
don't believe in lake monsters.
I don't believe in Bigfoot.
But I I'm open
minded, I'm skeptical,
I accept or deny the evidence.
And obviously, I wouldn't
still be doing this
if 60 years later,
I didn't consider it
a strong possibility there's
new animals out there.
>>NOORY: Well, you're
one of the best, Loren.
And of all these cryptids
that we've talked about,
which is the one that
you think will probably
come to the forefront?
And we're going to say, a-ha!
We finally found one.
>>COLEMAN: I think the one
that will be discovered
in our lifetime will
be Orang Pendek, which
is a little, four-foot-tall
creature in Indonesia that has
been seen by scientists there.
>>NOORY: What does
that look like?
>>COLEMAN: It's like
a little orangutan.
But it always is upright.
It's almost like a
little, hairy human being.
>>NOORY: Like a little
dwarf or something?
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
Well, you know the hobbits
that people talk about--
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>COLEMAN: --Homo floresiensis
that was discovered in 2013?
It may be one of those.
It may be lingering-on
population
of little, hairy creatures.
>>NOORY: Because we're
a primate, generally,
we'll walk kind of stooped over.
>>COLEMAN: Right.
>>NOORY: This is a little
more upright, right?
>>COLEMAN: Very upright.
It's-- orangutans and the
gorillas, they stoop over.
This is more humanlike, in
which it's upright all the time.
That will change
anthropology forever.
>>NOORY: Could it
be a little human?
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
It could be a
little human that's
a little different than all
of the ones that we know.
>>NOORY: I mean, pygmies are--
how tall are pygmies?
>>COLEMAN: Well, pygmies
can be four feet tall.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>COLEMAN: This one may
be even shorter, 3 and 1/2
feet, two feet tall.
>>NOORY: Fully developed?
>>COLEMAN: Fully developed.
And we know they exist, because
we have fossil evidence.
>>NOORY: Could they be what
people have called, in Ireland,
leprechauns?
>>COLEMAN: Maybe,
maybe part of it.
Maybe the leprechaun memory,
and a lot of the little people
memories from around the world,
may be ancestral remembrances
of these little people.
>>NOORY: And
wouldn't it be great
if these creatures
were still alive?
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
We could actually--
>>NOORY: Not skeletons,
but the actual creatures.
>>COLEMAN: Yes.
And we could probably
put a day aside
whenever we discover them.
And it will be one that we'll
point to as the day they
discovered the little people.
>>NOORY: Loren, for people
who want to track your work,
how do they find you?
>>COLEMAN: Well,
through the museum
is probably one of
the best places,
cryptozoologymuseum.com.
And there's a link
there for my emails
and other correspondence.
And that's probably the easiest.
>>NOORY: And some people
have reported hearing
Bigfoot screams in the woods.
What do you think of that?
>>COLEMAN: I think
that's probably true.
I think that there's a
lower population of Bigfoot.
And one of the ways that
they're communicating
is valley to valley.
So they have to vocalize
in a way that humans don't.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
Well, keep up the
good work, would you?
>>COLEMAN: Well,
thank you, George.
It's great being here with you.
>>NOORY: Always.
You know, I've been
fascinated in cryptids
since the Abominable Snowman
when I was about 10 years old.
>>COLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It's an amazing
discovery one day.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]